    Toronto: the simplest way to write novels & scenarios made of many interconnected fragments.

# Who is this for ?

Mainly for:

* Novelists who need to define the characters, places, events… of their story in a "database way", and then need to weave free semantical relations between them.
* Authors of tabletop RPG scenarios, for whom this interconnected fragments-based way of writing is absolutely natural.

# Why does it exist ?

* Because sometimes, writing simple text files and organizing them into directories and subdirectories is more convenient than dealing with a less intuitive hypertext writing tool which persists data in an opaque way.
* Because every system hosts a text editor.

# How does it taste ?

Toronto is based on a "write, parse, publish" workflow.
You write text files, enrich them with metadata and link them.
Then, Toronto will parse your files and provide a viewer with a serialized representation of your data.
There is an analogy with the LaTeX workflow : 1) writing .tex files (=> text files with Toronto syntax), 2) calling the latex compiler (=> the Toronto parser which compile your data in JSON), and eventually, 3) calling a PDF viewer (=> a graph viewer which relies on the serialised data).

# The Toronto syntax

First, you write text simple files and organise them into folders:

    ~/MyFirstNovel/Characters/Mary.tex:

    Mary is a brilliant pianist.
    She likes Bach and Schubert.
    Her father owns a farm in Ohio.
    She now lives in Toronto.

    ~/MyFirstNovel/Characters/Peter.tex:

    Peter is a philosophy teacher.
    He likes chinese food, duck hunt and single malts from Islay island.
    He works at Toronto university.

Then, you enrich files with metadata.
A metadata is any word you need, preceded by `"%$"`.

    ~/MyFirstNovel/Characters/Mary.tex:

    %$NAME Mary

    %$

    Mary is a brilliant pianist.
    (…)

    ~/MyFirstNovel/Characters/Peter.tex:

    %$NAME Peter
    %$OCCUPATION Teacher

    Peter is a philosophy teacher.
    (…)

From now, your files are not just files but… Entities! Tada!
You can define semantic relations:

    ~/MyFirstNovel/Characters/Mary.tex:

    %@ mary
    %$NAME Mary
    %&loves>peter

    %$

    Mary is a brilliant pianist.
    (…)

    ~/MyFirstNovel/Characters/Peter.tex:

    %@ peter
    %$NAME Peter
    %$OCCUPATION Teacher
    %&hates>mary

    Peter is a philosophy teacher.
    (…)

A link declaration is made of a starting `%&` (which means: "I'm a link!"), a link name, a direction (`>` or `<`) and an Entity id.
Csqtly, to be linked, an Entity must declare an id in its correspondig text file.
This is made by typing: `%@ entity_id`.

Sometimes, you'll want to comment links.
Here is the corresponding syntax:

    ~/MyFirstNovel/Characters/Peter.tex:

    %@ peter
    (…)
    %&hates>mary
    %(
    Peter hates Mary because she said that Adorno is so hard to read that she fells asleep everytime she opens one of his books.
    This terrible incident occured at a party where both of them were invited.
    %)
    (…)

# The Toronto parser

Once you have written, enriched and linked text files thanks to the above-explained minimalistic syntax, you can launch Toronto.
A JSON representation of all your data will appears on stdio.

# The Toronto players

/!\ WORK IN PROGRESS /!\

Generated JSON data allow everyone to build visual representations of the Entities hypertext semantic network.
I'm currently working on graph viz that are based on `d3.js`.

# Technical notes

Toronto is a Java console app which takes a single parameter which is the URI of your project folder:

    java -jar <Toronto.jar generated by Maven> ~/MyFirstNovel/

You need Maven: `build.sh` contains the Maven tasks you can run to compile the application.
